---
id: core_serialization
title: Serialization
subtitle:
---

## Abstract

EnviRe supports serialization and de-serialization based on the [boost serialization](http://www.boost.org/libs/serialization/doc/) library.

## Overview

EnviRe relays on boost serialization to be able to save and load it's internal state.
It also supports serialization of polymorphic types through the base types.

Items can be serialized using the following methods:

```cpp
    envire::core::ItemBase::Ptr plugin;
    // instantiate item base pointer
    if (envire::core::Serialization::save(stream, plugin))
    {
        // plugin was successfully serialized
    }
```

```cpp
    envire::core::ItemBase::Ptr plugin;
    if (envire::core::Serialization::load(stream, plugin))
    {
        // plugin was successfully de-serialized
    }
```

Also the complete graph with all it's items can be serialized.

```cpp
    envire::core::EnvireGraph graph;
    // fill envire graph
    boost::archive::polymorphic_binary_oarchive oa(stream);
    oa << graph;
```

```cpp
    envire::core::EnvireGraph graph;
    boost::archive::polymorphic_binary_iarchive ia(stream);
    ia >> graph;
```

### Providing a serializable EnviRe item

In order to create a new EnviRe item and support it's serialization the item and it's embedded type must be serializable.
There are two macros which shall be used in order to define a new item class for EnviRe:

- ``ENVIRE_PLUGIN_HEADER ( namespace::classname )``

  Has to be placed in the class declaration in the header of the new type. It is not necessary
  but recommended to add the name space in order to have a more unique lookup name.
  It adds the boost serialization function to the class definition.

- ``ENVIRE_REGISTER_PLUGIN ( namespace::classname )``

  Has to be placed in the source file of the class.
  It registers the class to the serialization by exporting the class to boost using ``BOOST_CLASS_EXPORT`` and creates a helper class which is statically instantiated as soon as the library is loaded. This allows to serialize base classes correctly even if the concrete class is not included (unknown to the implementation at runtime). However the shared library needs to be linked or loaded of course.

This two macros add serialization support for an item class. However the embedded type must be serializable by boost serialization as well. This can be done by defining a intrusive or non-intrusive function. More information
can be found in the [boost serialization](http://www.boost.org/libs/serialization/doc/) documentation.

## Framework connection

In the [ROCK](http://www.rock-robotics.org) framework types are exported using the [typelib](http://rock-robotics.org/master/api/typelib/) library. Typelib is able to automatically parse types, but has some limitations: e.g. pointer, virtual functions, private members, std library container (besides of std::vector). For those more complex classes it is possible to define so called opaque types and write methodes to convert the data structure from the origin type to the opaque type and vise versa. The opaque type must be typelib compatible and does hold the same data that the origin type does.
In case a type is not typelib compatible, but serializable by boost, the opaque and its conversions can be autogenerated. 

Since EnviRe items (``envire::core::Item<T>``) are not typelib compatible it is necessary to generate an opaque type for them. To achieve this it is not feasible to use boost serialization, since the layout is known and a suitable opaque type allowing introspection can be generated.

### Orocos type export

Autogenerate opaque (transport) type for classes supporting boost serialization:

```ruby
# define opaque
typekit do
    opaque_autogen '/namespace/SomeClass', 
                    :includes => 'namespace/SomeClass.hpp', 
                    :type => :boost_serialization
end
# type export
typekit do
    export_types '/namespace/SomeClass'
end
```

Autogenerate oqaque (transport) type for classes inheriting from ``envire::core::Item<T>``:

```ruby
# define opaque
typekit do
    opaque_autogen '/namespace/SomeClassItem', 
                    :includes => 'namespace/SomeClassItem.hpp', 
                    :type => :envire_serialization,
                    :embedded_type => '/namespace/SomeClass'
end
# type export
typekit do
    export_types '/namespace/SomeClassItem'
end
```

The difference between both methods is that the autogenerated envire item opaque is not just a binary stream. The opaque type has the same members than the ``envire::core::Item<T>``, i.e. unique id, frame name, timestamp and the embedded type. The embedded type must either be typelib compatible, the user has to write an opaque type or the boost serialization based opaque autogeneration can be used.
